The first step in any kind of question
answering is answer type detection and
query formulation.
So going back to our box diagram here,
our flowchart.
We have a question, and the first thing
we're going to do in question processing
is understand what's being asked here.
There are as many as five things that
we normally extract from a question.
Perhaps the most important
is the answer type.
This is a named entity,
a person, or a place, or
a date that tells us what we're
looking for in this factoid question.
Query formulation, equally important.
That's the set of words we're
going to send to the IR engine
that tells us what to look for, what
passages are likely to have the answer.
And then other kinds of things depending
on the system may also be extracted.
So, question type classification
we want to know for
example, is this a definition question,
we might have to find the definition
in a dictionary or build one ourselves.
Is it a math question,
we might want to answer that with
mathematics directly rather than
going to find text snippets.
Or a list question,
we're looking for lists of things so
we might want to look for
for list sources.
And there are other kinds of
things like focus detection, so
find the question words that
are being replaced by the answer.
Or relation extraction,
find all the relations between
entities in the question.
We talked about relation
extraction earlier and
these are used by some systems and
not by others.
So here's an example of the kinds of
things we can extract from questions,
this is from a Jeopardy kind of question.
So, they're the two states
you could be reentering
if you're crossing
Florida's northern border.
So here we're looking for
a state, a US state, so
the answer type we are looking for
is a state.
What we might want to send to
the IR engine is, two states,
border, Florida, and north.
These words are going to be good words to
find passages that might have the answer.
The focus, the thing that we're
trying to answer, is two states.
And the relations that we might extract,
or
the relations that express what the answer
is, is the answer is some unknown thing
which is in the borders relation
with Florida and north.
So something that's north of Florida.
So if we have databases that express
geographical information like
what state borders what state, we might
look for this relation in those databases.
So the first step, answer type detection,
here we just need named entities.
So if I see a question like
who founded Virgin Airlines?
The answer type is a person.
If I see a question like, what Canadian
city has the largest population?
The answer is a city.
Relatively simple.
And for
that we need an answer type taxonomy.
A type of name entities that might
be useful in question answering.
So for example here's
the taxonomy from Li and Roth.
They talked about six course classes.
We might ask about abbreviations or
entities,
descriptions of entities,
people, places, and numbers.
You know,
the kind of things we might have.
And inside those we might have
more specific classes, so we might
be asking about a city or a country or
a mountain as a type of location.
Or we could be asking about a person or
a group of people and
we could be asking about all sorts
of different kinds of entities.
And here's their answer type
taxonomy showing some of
the individual subtypes of
the major six entity types.
So a numeric question could be a date
question or a distance question or
a percent question and so on.
Any of these kind of types
that we might want to find.
And here's just showing you, it's in the
small font, so you can come back and look
at it later, but the kind of answer types
that are in the Li and Roth Taxonomy.
So we might have currencies, or diseases,
or foods, or instruments, and so on,
and then some examples of each of these.
Or for locations,
we might have mountains or states.
And all sorts of things for
numbers, speeds, and sizes, and
temperatures and so on.
The Jeopardy system also
used a lot of answer types.
And they did a nice analysis looking
at 2,500 answer types
inside 20,000 questions.
And what they found was that the most
frequent 200 answer types covers
less than half of the data.
Here's the 40 most frequent
Jeopardy answer types.
So you see in Jeopardy, you tend to
be asking about people or movies or
countries or cities and so on.
Here's more people, authors, and so on.
But still it's a pretty broad
distribution of possible answer types.
So we're going to need a large number
of answer type detectors to really get
a large set of questions for
something like Jeopardy or even for
easier factoid questions.
How do we do answer type detection?
Like almost everything we've seen so
far, we can do hand-written rules,
we can do machine learning or
we can do hybrids of the two.
And we're going to see all three
of this in modern systems.
So for example, for
some kinds of answers we might do very
well with regular expression rules.
If we see who and then a form of to be,
and then a named entity, person,
then our guess is that we're asking,
this is a person question.
Or if we see in an answer
PERSON (YEAR-YEAR),
we know that we're looking here for
a person.
In other kind of rules, we're going to
be using the question headword.
And the headword is generally the head of
the first noun phrase after the wh-word.
So here we have wh-word, which,
and then the headword is city.
Or here we have wh-word, what, and
here's the noun phrase the state flower
of California and its head is flower.
So this headword often will tell
us a lot about the answer type.
This tells us we're looking for city and
it tells us we're looking for a flower.
But more often rather than simply
writing hand-written rules,
we treat the problem as machine learning.
So we define a taxonomy of question types.
We've seen some already.
We annotate trading data for each question
type, and now we'll train classifiers
using some rich set of features which
might include those hand-written rules we
talked about to decide what
question type a question is.
What's the answer type of
a particular question.
And the features we're going to use for
these answer types, the words or phrases
in the answer, the parts-of-speech tag, we
might use the headwords we talked about,
named entities, semantically related
words and all of this kind of regular
expressions we can hand-write for
particular question patterns.
The next step in Factoid Q/A.
Now we've done answer type detection.
The next step is query formulation.
How do we decide what words to send to
the IR engine to return documents and
then passages?
And one well-known keyword selection
algorithm from Moldovan et al,
uses a number of heuristics,
each of which tell you which keywords
in the question might be important
keywords to put in the query.
So, if we see words in quotations,
that's a very likely word
that people are looking for.
And another important thing to look for
is proper names and
then other kinds of nominals.
And maybe less important verbs.
And then even less important adverbs.
And maybe all other words
might be even less important.
So we have a ranking of what words
are important to put in the query.
So for example,
here's a slide from Mihai Surdeanu.
So we have a question like,
who coined the term "cyberspace"
in his novel "Neuromancer"?
Well, we might throw out some stop words.
So who, and, the, and, in, and his.
And now we might say, well,
"cyberspace" and "Neuromancer",
those are probably things we definitely
want to be putting in the query.
Term and novel are nominals, and
we saw nominals are an important thing,
right, we ranked them as rank 4.
And now a verb might be rank 7.
So we might say extract
from this that we have
two terms that are extremely likely we
want to be in the query and something that
is a little less likely, couple of less
likely things and even less likely.
So now we can form
the query in various ways,
we can try just sending
the things of rank 1, or
we can send and go until we have enough
query words to make a long query.
Or we can send the things of rank 1 and
see how many queries we get back, and
if there's not enough,
add in more query terms and so on.
So what we do with these ranking of
queries depends on exactly what database
we're querying, whether it's the web or
a smaller database and so on.
So we've seen the first step in
factoid-based, IR-based, factoid
question answering, which is extracting
an answer type from the question and
extracting the query terms that we're
going to send to the IR engine.